this is going to be a fun one talking
about
to see to Java transition issues so
please give your undivided attention to
France as well hi nice to meet you all
today and she's going to be the most
support hour of the day so bear with me
and we'll make it exciting
I know there are a lot of objective-c
villas this afternoon in the room and I
am a show of hand
oh yeah so don't worry I brought the
bulletproof vest
throughout the show and let me introduce
my bodyguard
BAM tremble yes and we have riot shield
in the back so and then by the way will
be doing the demo for us today okay so
what are we going to cover this session
is going to assume some previous
knowledge of web objects obviously if
you've been programming for using
advocacy you know about web objects and
we are going to cover the different
strategies for converting objective-c
wet crip and with Java projects and we
are going to demo all supplied
conversion tools what you'll know learn
will first make a stop and go back on
the goals of the pure Java which is
named web objects 5 we then going detail
into who should convert who should not
and what API on feature changes you can
expect in web objects pure Java then
we'll move into the conversion process
per se and give you some hints on how
you can expand it so what is this web of
x-5 relieves called web as x5 for Java I
never understand why there is for that
after once because in Java anyway so it
is basically whether X 4.5 water to Java
it is a huge full-featured web as X 0.5
comply
I am and all the framework web objects
gof work extensions you name it
other it works as an add-on to web
objects 4.5 for example all the
developer tools are shared between 4.5
and web of x5 the monitoring tools have
been ported and the test tools have been
ported as well so that you can use them
you can use the pure Java version of
these tools to either monitor or test
the 4.5 apps all the high point OS this
is a good way for us to provide both
fixes for these tools in the at the same
time and finally there is the conversion
tool we are going to talk about today so
what are the benefits what one of the
most important benefits that is still
one where we used to run you can still
develop a Mac os10 server on Windows and
soon you'll be able to develop a Mac
os10
the deployment platforms I've been
extended and we window support Linux
deployment environment we accept to have
a smaller runtime footprint by by moving
to Java and to let you deploy on a lot
of different platforms that we can even
think of we're looking forward some when
deploying on PlayStation for example I
don't even know if there'll be employed
other benefits well you can expect and
take my word for it a better Java
experience web project 5.0 is going to
run on JDK one one eight by by default
and will be dedicated to an 1.3
compliant we are not going to take
advantage of the newer VMs but just for
backward compatibility but we are going
to run on them this release with a low
for much better integration with
third-party development tools we have
already some experience using optimizers
and debuggers that are outside or usual
on tools box and finally we will
integrate much better with any third
party products that provides a Java
interface no more bridge issue to be
concerned about
so more benefit the database
connectivity is going to be extended
now that we have a pure JDBC support we
are as well providing a plug-in
technology so that for vendors that have
a customized ad BC interface we are able
to support this customization we have as
well ported the LDAP adapter okay so
when I showed marketing the prototype of
the web of x-5 release which was
codenamed mone at the time from the
French painter they came to me and said
well France as it is great but what are
we going to do with all our Objective C
developers that have and rather saddled
of lines of code are you going to
provide them a tool to deal with this
and I said no way I cannot do it
this is a test that is very hard and
will never reach a hundred percent
solution but I I went for it and I spent
some time designing and spend a lot of
time in the dark then I saw the light
and I really came up with a very good
design for the for a Java converter and
my claim is that we are going to take
you 80% toward the pure Java solution by
using these tools and by the way there
will be a jar converter t-shirt and
guess what will be at the back of the
dryer converter t-shirt we will have
commented out ok let's move on
we should convert well basically any of
the key via web Script developer that
requires more deployment solution should
consider converting anyone with an
existing with java application should
not even consider it you just do it
because it's going to be seamless and
anyone requiring access to modular
standards to better Java development
tools that we do not provide should
think about converting to we should
think twice up before converting well if
you've been around for a long time you
have been used to take advantage of the
objective-c goodies that we like and
that we are going to lose so if your web
address application or framework
contains tons of categories on your own
NS star roaster or co-star classes maybe
because you want to extend them maybe
because you want to fix or own bugs you
name it well you're going to be in
trouble if you rely heavily on the PO -
feature for the same reasons both as is
a very powerful feature of objectives of
objective-c and it is good if you use a
lot of low-level of the different time
calls this kind of function that you can
find in the system that framework
headers - objective-c header files these
are all not supported we have to deal
with the pure Java runtimes
runtime provided by the DDT and the
reflect
api's if you use low level c function
calls or structures you're in trouble
again you'll have to change these
structures into objects if you can but
if you don't own this CC function calls
while you'll have to find an equivalent
in Java and of course if you're already
in production with your application it
is in Objective C but you have deployed
it why the hell would you want to
convert just let it burn let it bring
you money by truckload and concentrate
on the future the conversion process so
what what does it take so my claim again
it will take you 80% there let's use the
metaphor here let's assume you want to
repaint your house so you could go for a
go at it with a paintbrush on the bucket
of pay don't spend your summer paint in
your house well that's not very exciting
now the other solution is to hire
professional the professionals are very
expensive we're in the 21st century so
you could have higher army of robots
that would come and because they are
very basic robots that would tape around
the trimming and windows of your house
on sprayed spray-painted now they would
pay a few bushes on trees but what the
heck your house is painted and you're
80% their hole is left for you is to
remove the table do the finish work
it's the interesting work that's all the
rock converter works ok let's start with
a demo so then my lovely assistant of
the day will they were the data
conversion on one of your example the
distributed session store application so
basically this is a command line tool
that is written in Java and you see that
it is first copying the project and then
moving through all the files this is
fast default so it's really hard to talk
as fast
sorry for the Japanese translator okay
did the job
now if Ben would like to open the
project this was a project with some web
script and some on one dot M so it's a
very simple project then you want to
open the Java version which is one of
these yeah so open the PDF project so
you'll see that no you just have Java
classes and the same application that
I'm was changing to an application to
Java you can click on it to show that
there is some data code there and same
with the same with the other classes if
you look at the framework bucket the
framework bucket is now pointing to the
new frameworks and so on so I wouldn't
claim that this code compile but for the
grunt work is done now we have another
example which is again doing the same
kind of work but this time on this file
the file we take is the eeo utilities
file so open G and pickier utility dot M
yes
so again the convertor is working on the
file and is going to come out with okay
so at one point you see that there are
some possible post-processing calls
being done it's part of the
customization I took and I will explain
it in more detail later on now if you
look at the file that have been created
for us
can you sing yet click again unlike in
the scientist and click on OK they are
here so you have two files one one year
into the Java which is actually I
believe empty because most of these
click on it it should be okay movies ok
click on this one here this one is
interesting so this is actually what
happens to categories categories are
moved to static classes you don't see
the word static here this is a bug but
basically the methods that were in
editing context here it is on a editing
contacts are no move to categories and
this is the important point
ok and now as a last demo gee the demo
that is going to take much longer
Ben is going to start in the background
with the conversion of the you all go
extensions framework so it is a five
thousand lines of code freaking
framework with of the kisi web script
Java isn't a client-side driver and it's
just going to go through it so this is
going to take a while let's move back to
the slide now and I'm Ben tell us when
she's finished that we can look at the
result okay so what did you see the
other converter has different load of
functioning it has the project white
conversion mode the file by file
conversion mode for touch up work and
then all at once or which data only
conversion mode
so what are the different tests you can
accomplish you can first move your files
one by one from COTC or web script to
pure a pure data file you can move a
wool project directory to a huge
elaborate directory you can move a
product directory to an intermediate
step which is with Java which you can
still run on for five and then move it
again to a pure Java project directory
and you could do the same with files so
why would you convert in one step
converting in one step from an
objective-c to a pure Java project can
be done for smaller projects you can
expect a long period of non running
right I'm just being objective and all
your files are converted and the
resources that make files and the
framework references are corrected we
need to slightly modify the component
word files and the director web model
for example now by the way this looks
vanitas try again by the way it is one
step procedure is the one we took for or
ill access layer Oh you access framework
the two steps conversion is a procedure
I followed for the web objects framework
itself at the time I didn't have a
conversion tool it came after one so I
add the I did the 2037 line by hand and
it was at a pleasurable experience the
way I made it more pleasurable was by 14
classes five classes one after the other
and keeping the app running at all time
so this is doable thanks to the bridge
you can we recommend this approach for
other projects because at all time you
keep your project running you're just
moving one file at a time from the
objective-c world to the bridge Java
world and you keep everything in sync
you make some API public
a throw of rappers by doing so you can
do incremental framework conversion and
you can go down to a class-by-class
conversion when I started converting
WebLogic to Java I was wasn't even sure
it was going to work in the first place
so what did I do
I started by converting the dynamic
elements and pretty soon I had a
framework that was split between
objective-c bridge Java and I was
applying a tiny to an example like hello
world and it was still working so I got
I grew more confident and I sorted the
whole session object now I had a void
session object on the bridge side on and
so on and so on until one day all I had
left was the application object now this
object is the five thousand line of code
monster again here there is another
approach you can take which is to
subclass this Objective C Java so class
exclusive reached in bridge Java and at
this point you can move method per
method one by one through the bridge and
again makes the conversion process much
more stable I'd say you you and you
always have something running it takes a
lot more time but if you have a manager
breathing down your neck asking you well
what Francois what where are you today
you can say well today as I have the
position that he's running or whatever
is your case and once running your
project can be converted to pure Java by
using the Java convert or I guess I
guess ok so what does the result include
that I could look like well let's let's
pause for a moment how do I look like
now I look like a clown
hey I'm still myself
yeah I do look like a clown but I am
still myself and your code is still
going to be your code is going to look
different but the important part of the
logic the algorithms are still there and
they are still yours so please look
further than just the language are in
because this language conversion can be
automated what cannot be automated is
the value you bring in the code which is
your own logic and what we do is that we
beautify your code well beautify to
which standard I'm a metal person and I
don't care very much about aesthetics
but we have some people in all groups
that are very on top of this these code
standards and the way they are defined
or beautified code stand down well if
you don't like them use one of these
beautifier that are available on the web
for Java code so about ten of them so
pick your own and make it look as you
want now we preserve the order in your
code of course otherwise what would be
left and we provide all your comments we
as well add some comments that are
tagged so that you get three more three
levels of conversion error that are
easily searchable in the produced Java
code we're done principle Wow
what timing okay so let's look at the or
extensions java project so this is a
very big project with sub project and
the Java converter dealt with them
correctly if you move to the oh here
actually we have some more category
interesting category categories on
objects that are not recognized like NS
RA in a suitable array cannot be merged
back into the model class let's say so
these categories are transformed into
static classes these are the four ones
you see at the beginning of the product
class list now if you move to sub
projects for example or you would like
to see one
okay click on the first one for example
so it's now a helper class and I and
this method should actually be static
this is just a bug will fix now if you
move to the sub-project bucket you see
that we had a bunch of sub product we
had client-side Java code whereas it was
QR code and we just didn't touch it
because it was already in future we add
some more
for example examples of or even oh let
the war events login code is interesting
as well very complicated code can you
open one of these let's see see what you
can we can find here so you see the
comments of reserved them
yeah it's not very complicated so this
kind of classes we can expect you can
expect them to compile at one let's move
back to the top level I'd like to show a
wedge click file subclasses and look for
the statistics page I know this was a
web script but fine
was that stage okay so far was that for
four wet script files basically what you
lose whenever whenever you add Ivar
declarations with the ID tag what you
lose is what you won't get is a type
declaration of the object so for all the
divers you get an object type and
whenever we can restore the type we do
for example you see here in the middle
are immutable dictionary and double well
the Java converter is clever enough to
notice that some operation some
arithmetic operation was done on this
either so it deducted that this should
be a double so it made it a double
either instead of a just a plain object
so sometimes with web script it's able
to restore the type of an object other
times it will just eat it as an object
okay well let's switch back to the slide
and let's move on so once it is time to
compile you go through all these arrows
and pull them one by one and we go
because most of the arrows will be the
same you're going to be able to solve
them so bunch of them at a time and more
importantly have a consistent way of
solving them so the biggest problem I
got when I did my file by file
conversion converting the web objects
framework was that I a month down the
road I had forgotten what type of
solution I had found for a problem on
day one and I tend to solve same
problems in different ways and it gets
very inconsistent coding now when you
have a tool that we do everything
upfront for you it was so simple
problems like try catch exception
wrapping of exceptions and enumerations
and so on in a nice and consistent way
so actually in that you know 80
percenter and that i have taken out the
hassle of converting my translation
translation rate personally was trained
with lines a day so for example this
project of work extensions that seat 45
hundred lines of code code I would have
done in 15 days Java converter just did
it just brought the 80 percenter in five
minutes so that's a pretty good
accomplishment isn't it
okay let's let's drill down more into
the issues some foundation classes are
not available anymore so don't run away
screaming these are the classes you are
not choosing the first place or you are
using them because you had to like any
photo release pool who is going to
monitor release pool we have some
skeptics and some masochist here
java.lang thread is a good alternative
to an a thread
same with java.lang string so we remove
the next thread in a string on others
that had exact counterpart in the Java
world the NS stars structs are gone
except NS range we get an S range
because it was used in a public API and
we didn't want to break away a week API
so we keep kept it but if you're using
NS size and this point and expect you'll
have to create your own Java object to
do so category issues so let's let's sum
up what we saw in the demonstration
categories on classes in the same
project are reunited so if you have your
own you implement your own class and
then lower down in a sub-project you
stop adding categories on on this class
well everything will be merged in one
class so you will not be able to use
category two compartment your code
anymore like in Objective C categories
on external classes are transformed in
helper class especially categories on
classes like any string but the new l4
classes cannot be referenced when needed
automatically so you will still have to
go back let's say let's say your decide
to have a categorical and a string on we
implement length now we are going to put
a dollar converter is going to create
for you Minister NS string and overall
length class will help with the help
from s
current length but it's not going to be
able to guess every that everywhere in
your code it would call length or not so
you will have to go and modify the
static so call into a static holder
macros and functions all macros are
resolves this is done by using the pre
compiler and because of that you may run
to problem if you ever if you are using
if there's a lot to do software platform
issues you may have to convert several
times for every platform you're using
exception handling is handled nicely and
it's enumeration numerator and of nicely
as well same with if statement where the
weather node is no test if the object is
null or not all the NS functions call
our God and these are automatically
translated when we can in other cases we
do not have an equivalent so you'll be
on your own on your own and finally see
function calls must be corrected
manually we do not provide a conversion
comment for assortment for example
the more API issues most of our API
changes are automatically done for you
and for from most of these API changes
out actually occur between objective-c
Umbra Java between grid Java on geogebra
there is almost no API change the API
chain is a change between bridge around
pure Java is just an import statement
change and a couple of reactions that's
very minimal so don't be too concerned
about this the API you're using 95% of
the time will be there so as I said all
classes are kept there bridge the API
and the API changes on your framework
can be automated I will explain a go
more into detail on this last point
later ok now what happens when you start
an objective-c conversion basically the
jar converter is an objective-c compiler
it's written in pure Java as well but
and because of that furnace you cannot
use the new objective-c grammar it's
using a grammar that I have rewritten
that is based on the on the globe
rikishi grammar and it follows a
grandmaster dog from meta meta which is
a grammar used across java as a java
world for parsing and we provided
Granoff so that you can improve it if
you if you want to support weird
objective-c syntax like at ASM for
assembly code if you find a way to embed
assembly code in your java programmer
you can use a ram or you can do that
this is not a good C compiler I have
concentrated on converting objective-c
to Java and not C to Java if you rely a
lot on the C pointers and pointer
manipulation well you're going to be in
trouble
so don't use that to convert your your C
Bay graphics library Network and as I
said before we use CPP for macro
pre-processing web script font
conversion well what is the bank
Wesley Prosser we have here its web
script itself so I made I'm slightly
modified the west whipped butter and
extended it to generate pseudo
objective-c so once I get this to double
active C code I can feed it to the real
Java converter that will change it into
Java code that's basically all it works
so I had to loosen somewhat the
objective-c growl ah so that it would
accept it slack of the keep C web script
coding standards that you like and
finally the bridge Java conversion is
done by just feeding a bridge Java file
to a sub script and the output is pure
Java all the imports are corrected the
minimize minimal API changes are applied
and that's it
Java converter is extensible why does it
mean as I said before this well I
haven't said it before but the source
code will be provided the grammar will
be provided and for people that are not
that adventurous we will we as well
provide Burkittsville script folders
where you can drop your own script to
enhance the pre and post conversion
steps so if you have put a script in the
pre-conversion folder whatever file is
fed to the java converter
first we pass with this script and the
output will only be fed to the data
converter and this way you can automate
your own framework API changes if you
have your own API changes between
Objective C to Java on you most likely
will you can automate them with one of
these quick conclusion I went into more
detail in the Weber's x5 and our
environment we demoed you a great tool
that handles much of the uninteresting
work for converting Java code elective C
code to Java and it will be available to
you in the upcoming beta so I hope I
hope most of you will find a use for it
and that you will be very successful now
if you have any question you should we
will have both meeting both of the feder
later today across carry across the
street yes and now I want you to think
different about the conversion process
and I will take any questions right
thank you very much
[Applause]
you